Yoda
Yoda was the wise, knowledgeable, experienced, and powerful Grand Master of the Jedi Order, and a Jedi Master on the Jedi Council. He was a high-ranking general of Clone Troopers in the Clone Wars, and later trains Luke Skywalker to fight against the Galactic Empire, and further carrying on in his after-death existence as a Jedi Ghost using his influence to help Jedi that live after his passing.

Mace Windu
Mace Windu was a male human Jedi Weapons Master of the High Council and one of the last members of the order's upper echelons before the fall of the Galactic Republic. Windu was one of the most powerful Jedi and possibly the greatest swordsman of his time, able to defeat Darth Sidious in lightsaber combat, a feat which even Yoda could not achieve. Windu had the unique talent of seeing "shatterpoints", or faultlines in the Force that could affect the destinies of certain individuals, and indeed the galaxy itself.[17]

Qui-Gon Jinn
Originally mentored by Count Dooku, Qui-Gon Jinn was a wise and powerful male human Jedi Master and the teacher of Obi-Wan Kenobi. Unlike other, more conservative Jedi, he values living in the moment as the best way to embrace the Force. While other Jedi respect him highly, they are frequently puzzled by his unorthodox beliefs and ultimately deny him a seat on the Jedi Council despite being among the most powerful of the Jedi.[18]

Obi-Wan Kenobi
Obi-Wan Kenobi was a male human Jedi Master who initiated Anakin and Luke Skywalker to the Jedi arts and served as a central character during the events of the Clone Wars. Obi-Wan proved himself an adept strategist, dueliest, and spy, as his leadership style heavily favored subterfuge and misdirection while commanding clone troopers, or wielding the Force.

Luke Skywalker
Luke Skywalker was a male human Grand Master of the Jedi who founded the New Jedi Order and the protagonist of the Star Wars original trilogy. As the last Padawan of Obi-Wan "Ben" Kenobi, he became an important figure in the Rebel Alliance's struggle against the Galactic Empire. Luke is heir to a family deeply powerful in the Force, the twin brother of Rebellion leader Princess Leia of the planet Alderaan, the son of former Queen of Naboo and Republic Senator Padmé Amidala and fallen Jedi turned Sith Lord Darth Vader (Anakin Skywalker), the maternal uncle of Ben, the maternal uncle of Jacen and Jaina Solo and the ancestor of Cade Skywalker.

Ki-Adi-Mundi
Ki-Adi-Mundi was a Cerean Jedi Master serving as a member of the Jedi Council during the last years of the Galactic Republic. He was among the Jedi participating in the Battle of Geonosis. He became a Jedi General in the Clone Wars and took part in such conflicts as the Second Battle of Geonosis. Unlike most Jedi he was allowed to marry a female and start a family even while obeying the Jedi code, mainly because his species have a small reproduction rate. While he was leading a contingent of Galactic Marines on Mygeeto, he was executed by his own forces under Order 66.

Plo Koon
Plo Koon was a Kel Dor Jedi Master serving as a member of the Jedi High Council during the last years of the Galactic Republic. He frequently undertook dangerous missions. He was the Jedi who found Ahsoka Tano, with whom he would, from that moment, share a special bond. He was among the Jedi who participated in the Battle of Geonosis. He became a Jedi General in the Clone Wars and took part in such conflicts as the Battle of Abregado and the Battle of Felucia. While he was leading a squadron of ARC-170 starfighters on Cato Neimoidia, he was ruthlessly destroyed by his own troops after Order 66 was executed by Emperor Palpatine.

Kit Fisto
Kit Fisto was a Nautolan Jedi Master during the last years of the Galactic Republic. He was among the Jedi who participated in the Battle of Geonosis and was one of the few survivors out of the 200 who traveled there. He became a Jedi General in the Clone Wars and took part in such conflicts as the Mission to Vassek's third moon and the Battle of Mon Cala. He was also involved in a mission with his former Padawan Nahdar Vebb to capture the escaped prisoner, Nute Gunray—however, the two ended up facing the notorious Jedi hunter General Grievous inside his lair. While Vebb perished at the hands of the General, Fisto very nearly bested him in combat, and escaped with his life, but without Gunray, ultimately making the mission a failure. At some point during the Clone Wars, Fisto accepted a seat on the Jedi Council. He also had a romantic-relationship with Aayla Secura, but due to the Jedi-code denying romance the two never exactly dated. While he was at the Jedi Temple, Anakin Skywalker revealed to Mace Windu that Chancellor Palpatine was a Sith Lord. Windu and Fisto, alongside Jedi Masters Agen Kolar and Saesee Tiin flew to Palpatine's office to arrest him. In the following duel, after Kolar and Tiin had perished, Fisto was killed by the Chancellor.
