Ahsoka Tano
Ahsoka Tano is a female Togrutan. During the Clone Wars, she was taken as a Padawan by then Mentor, Anakin Skywalker, and the two developed a big brother/kid sister relationship which ultimately foreshadowed Anakin's tragic future. She developed uncanny courage, tactical skills, leadership and trust, which was proven after she refused to abaddon other Padawans kidnapped by Trandoshan slavers. In Star Wars: The Clone Wars fifth season, she was framed for bombing the Temple and murdering a suspect-in-question by her friend Barriss Offee. She was then expelled from the Jedi Order and turned over to the Republic for trial. After proven innocent, the Jedi Council personally invited her to rejoin the Order, offering to reinstate her to "Jedi Knighthood", but she declined. Ahsoka understood that the Council didn't believe in her; stating that she needed to follow her own path, without the Order and Anakin, she left the Temple in tears. She resurfaced 14 years later in Star Wars Rebels, where she is revealed to be the mysterious "Fulcrum", and allied her rebel cell, Phoenix Squadron, with the crew of the Ghost. In "Shroud of Darkness", she is forced to accept Darth Vader is her corrupted former master. In "Twilight of the Apprentice," Ahsoka takes Ezra and Kanan to Malachor to search for Sith knowledge. She later sacrifices herself to buy Ezra and Kanan some time to get away from Darth Vader, forcing him to fight her as a temple collapses on top of them; her ultimate fate is left unknown.

Kanan Jarrus
Kanan Jarrus (born Caleb Dume) is a male human taken as a Padawan by falsely-rumoured fallen Jedi Master Depa Billaba during the Clone Wars and a character of Star Wars Rebels. Surviving the Great Jedi Purge at age 14, he exiled himself to the Imperial-controlled planet Lothal and became the de facto leader of the crew of the Ghost. Though still a Padawan, he has taken Lothal street urchin Ezra Bridger as his Padawan. When he found himself in Lothal's Jedi temple, he was put through a trial and ended up passing the test, becoming a Jedi Knight in the process.
