Darth Bane
Darth Bane (Dessel) established the Rule of Two within the Star Wars canon. This rule stated that there must be only two Sith Lords at a time: a master to embody power, and an apprentice to crave it and eventually overthrow his master and adopt an apprentice of his own.[11] He is the main character of the Darth Bane Trilogy by Drew Karpyshyn.

Darth Plagueis
Darth Plagueis was first referenced in Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith. Plagueis is the main character of Star Wars: Darth Plagueis. He was the master of Darth Sidious, as the latter told Anakin, and became so powerful that he was able to create life by influencing the midi-chlorians, and could also save people from dying. The novel Star Wars: Darth Plagueis reveals that Plagueis' alternate identity was a member of the Intergalactic Banking Clan (which served as one of the Separatist groups during the Clone Wars) and was eventually killed in his sleep by Sidious.

Darth Sidious
Darth Sidious (Sheev Palpatine) appears in the Star Wars saga films. Palpatine was a male human Dark Lord of the Sith who rose to power from being a Senator of Naboo, to Supreme Chancellor, and then to self-proclaimed Emperor of the Galactic Empire. This was achieved through double agents and a cleverly orchestrated sequence of events done under his alternate identity, Sheev Palpatine, who gained respect in the Republic while secretly participating in Sith practices and planning an end to the Jedi Order. He had three known Shadow Hands (apprentices): Darth Maul, Darth Tyranus and Darth Vader. He was eventually killed by his last, Vader, at the end of Return of the Jedi.[12]

Darth Maul
Darth Maul appears in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace. Maul is the first Shadow Hand of Darth Sidious in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. Sidious sends Maul to find and capture the escaped Queen Amidala. Later on, he dueled Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi, the Jedi sent to protect Amidala, in the plasma refinery complex beneath Theed Palace. Although Maul was able to defeat Qui-Gon Jinn, he fell to Kenobi when the Jedi Padawan used his master's lightsaber to slice Maul in half. 12 years later, during the Clone Wars, his fellow nightbrother Savage Opress found him dumped on the junk planet Lotho Minor, where it was revealed that Maul survived the injuries from his last duel, due to his strength with the dark side of the Force as it fueled his anger against Kenobi.[13]

Darth Tyranus
Darth Tyranus (Count Dooku) appears in Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith. Dooku is the second Shadow Hand of Darth Sidious in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones, which reveals Tyranus had a prominent role in engineering the Clone Wars,[14] recruiting bounty hunter Jango Fett to become the template for an army of clones to be used by the Galactic Republic. Tyranus led the Separatist Alliance during the Clone Wars until he met his demise while dueling Anakin Skywalker aboard the Invisible Hand in Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith.

Darth Vader
Darth Vader (Anakin Skywalker) appears in the Star Wars saga films. Anakin was a male human cyborg Sith Lord and the third Shadow Hand of Darth Sidious. A Jedi hero of the Clone Wars, he fought alongside his master, Obi-Wan Kenobi, but was slowly seduced to the dark side by Darth Sidious. After helping Sidious kill Jedi Master Mace Windu, he swore allegiance to the Sith before setting out to destroy all Jedi left on Coruscant. After being sent by Sidious to murder the Separatist council members on Mustafar, Vader was badly injured in a duel with Kenobi. He was saved by Sidious, and encased in a black suit of armor with extensive cybernetics. As the Galactic Empire was established and continued to grow, Vader became the Emperor's greatly feared second-in-command and was given the task of finding the Rebel Alliance's base. After the destruction of the First Death Star, Vader was charged with tracking down the Rebel Alliance and destroying their headquarters. However, the actions of his son, Luke Skywalker, eventually turned Vader against his master, resulting in both Sidious' and Vader's deaths.[15]
